hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be telling you the 50 best fiction books
that I have ever read so many people
have been asking me to give book
recommendations and I've been planning
on filming this video for such a long
time but I just never really got around
to doing it but since it's summer and
people have so much more time to read I
thought this would be the perfect time
to upload it so that you can maximize
the time that you have this summer and
actually read some really amazing books
I can tell you now that I loved each of
these books because otherwise they would
not be on this top 50 list but and I'm
just gonna give a one-line synopsis for
each one so that you have some general
idea of what it's about and I'm also
going to be showing the picture of the
book on the screen somewhere so you can
see the cover and you never judge a book
by its cover but some of these book
covers are really lovely I have done
reviews of some of these books on my
Goodreads which is just Ruby Granger
that's always left down below in the
description box so if you'd like to go
and have a look at my reviews and see
what I think about these books in more
detail then you can head over that so
the first book and my favorite book of
all time is cat's eye by Margaret Atwood
and this is about a woman who is
reflecting back on her childhood where
she was bullied by her best friend then
bullies like me by Linda's art which is
again about bullying it's about a girl
who has attempted suicide and she is
recovering in a psychiatric unit and
she's trying to come to terms with what
happened then of course a little
princess which I've read every year
since I was six years old this is about
a girl called Sara Crewe who comes over
to Miss Minchin's boarding school from
India when her father goes bankrupt she
is forced to work in the boarding school
as a servant girl then of course the
Harry Potter series by JK Rowling which
I don't really think I need to give us
an OPS is for then two of the carnegie
books from this year the first one is
the hate she goes by Angie Thomas this
is about a girl called Starr who
witnesses her friend Khalil being shot
by a policeman and this is basically
about these shootings of black people in
America and the other Carnegie book is
after the fire by will Hill which is set
in a Christian cult and taxes it's based
on a true story and it's it follows the
story of moon being who is known a
psychiatric unit after a fire which
destroyed the cult
and it's basically written in dialogues
between ha Island her therapist the next
book is we need to talk about heaven by
Lionel Schreber which is about a boy
called Kevin who at the age of 15
conducts a high school shooting and it's
told from the mother's point of view and
it follows his childhood and how this
potentially impacted the events of the
shooting room by Anna Dodson so this
woman has been trapped in this room in
this man's backyard for six or seven
years and during that time she has heard
a son called Jack and it's basically the
story of them and how they eventually
are able to leave room then of course To
Kill a Mockingbird by Harper Lee it's a
coming-of-age novel which follows the
story of Scout to six years old at the
beginning of the novel and it sat in
Alabama in the 1960s and it deals with
the problem of racism but most but most
specifically I would say the importance
of human kindness and in fact that we
can never know what's going on in
another person's life the next book on
this list is the stunning Jane Eyre by
Charlotte Bronte which again I don't
think it's really necessary for me to
give a synopsis I do only know how to
give this but it's not this actually
it's harder than it's harder than I
would have thought it would be the next
book on my list is the Perks of Being a
Wallflower by Stephen Chbosky it's a
coming-of-age story about Charlie who is
starting high school for the very first
time and he was home-schooled before and
it's him making friends in high school
and dealing with his depression I am
wearing a spurt of this video my perks
of being a wallflower top I stand up you
can see it just says and in that moment
I swear we were infinite I thought it
was quite fitting for this video because
I knew I was obviously going to include
The Perks of Being a Wallflower then the
next book that I got on my list is
Frankenstein by Mary Shelley this is
about a scientist called Victor
Frankenstein who is very isolated and
obsessed with he's very ambitious he's
very driven and he decides he wants to
create life from nothing he wants to
play God and he creates this monster
which isn't really a monster
and it's told partially from the
captain's view when he picks
Frankenstein up partially from
Frankenstein's for you and partially
from the monsters point of view the next
book which I have on this list is is a
children's book and that is secrets of
Mallory towers by Pamela Cox so in this
Mallory towers book a new girl Alice
joins the sick form and if there's as
mystery surrounding her bocas she's very
familiar to all of the girls but they
don't know who she is that's the side
that follows Felicity in the sixth form
and at the same time it's split between
the sick form and the first form and in
the first form you've got Daffy who is
Susan's younger sister and she is joined
as she is just really mischievous
and it's the conflict between Daffy and
violet who is the least popular in the
form so then next I have put down the
Picture of Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde
which took me ages to get around to
reading and I don't even know why
because it's amazing but it's about a
painting it's about a portrait that is
painted of Dorian Gray and he looks he
looks beautiful and beautiful in this
photograph its ethereal because as
Dorian Gray sins as he does evil actions
the painting is the one that suffered
it's the one that becomes distorted in
the facial expressions and during
Breyers person remains completely
flawless his skin remains as beautiful
as it does in the painting it's just
stunning the next book is the strange
and beautiful Sorrows of Ava lavender by
Lisl Walton and this is about a girl
called Ava lavender who was born with
angel wings on her back and she is shut
away from the outside world next I've
got Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close
by Jonathan Safran Foer and this is
about a young boy called Oscar chef who
at the age of nine uses his father in
9/11 and Oscar after the death of his
father finds this key and it's and the
book is basically his quest to find what
this key fits and Oscar is
high-functioning autism the narration
itself is really interesting because of
that my friend Baylor and I are
basically obsessed with this book the
next book is also about trials who has
high functioning autism and this is
Mockingbird by Katherine a sign I think
so this is about a girl called Caitlyn
whose brother dies in the school
shooting and again it's hard trying to
come to terms with her grief the next
book on my list is before I go to sleep
which I do have a copy of but it's
actually downstairs at the moment my
friend Allie recommended this to me this
is about a lady who every day she wakes
up and she can't remember anything so
she's got amnesia every morning and she
has to have her memories her past
explained to her every morning then next
I put down what I was which is by meg
Russell and this is about a boy at a
boarding school and he keeps on leaving
the confines of the school he finds this
cottage where another boy lives and it's
the burning of every month together and
it's beautiful the next book I've got is
Aristotle and Dante discover the secrets
of the universe
this is about the friendship between
Aristotle and Dante two boys who were
fifteen when they meet herb and it's a
coming-of-age story the next book is the
story of an African farm by olive
Shriner it's set in South Africa and
it's a feminist novel it explores the
concept of the new woman one of the
first books to do that and this lady
Lindell leaves the confines of the farm
to go off to school and be educated
the next book I've got down is also set
in South Africa actually which is the
grass of singing and this is about an
abusive relationship between a husband
and wife a husband and wife are both
white and the wife is really abusive to
their black slave it's horrible but at
the same time that's one of those really
important books and it's beautifully
written there next I've put on this list
wonder by RJ Palacio everyone knows the
story of Wanda but it's about a boy
called Auggie Pullman who is born with a
facial deformity which means that he
looks very different from other children
and
he has never gone to school before and
this is basically his first year in
fifth grade so the next book I put on is
counting by sevens which is about a
young precocious girl who loses both of
her parents in a car accident and it's
her coming to terms with her grief this
guy that's very intelligent it's
actually a bit like Extremely Loud and
Incredibly Close and Mockingbird so the
next book I've put down is the mystery
of the clock Roxbury which is again the
middle grade book and this is basically
about a mysterious Roxbury which goes
missing from the sinclair department
store it's kind of a mystery story
trying to find where it went
I really like this okay a sat in
Victorian London and it's just very
quaint of quintessential so then next I
put down reconstructing media by
Kimberly macwrite this is told from
partially from the perspective of the
mother and she finds her daughter Amelia
at the bottom of the school building
having fallen off from the top of the
building and it's deemed a suicide but
the mother is convinced that it wasn't a
suicide and so whether detective she
investigates the cause of Amelia's death
and as well as it being a really
exciting kind of gorilla mystery it's
also about female sororities in high
school which is really interesting the
next book is Eleanor elephant is
completely fine by Gail Honeyman and
this is about Berger a lady called
Eleanor who lives alone and she falls in
love with with this local musician and
it's basically her attempts to court him
and it's very amusing but it's also
tragic the next book I put down here is
a series and this is the bad girls don't
die trilogy this is a kind of teenage
horror series and I know you like books
like this but this is surprisingly good
I really loved this it's kind of about
ghosts social isolation I can't really
it's really difficult to give us an up
to this because all three books are very
different but there are good series the
next book that I've put down is love
Albury by Suzanne Lafleur and this is a
children's book this is about the girl
called Aubry who loses her dad and her
sister in a car accident and it's just
her and her mom laughter but then her
mom leaves
and so eleven-year-old Aubrey is left on
her own and it's again a book about
grief and her coming to terms with the
loss of her father and sister and also
mother the next book is great
expectations by Charles Dickens which
again doesn't really need a synopsis but
this is about a young boy called pip
he's born into a working-class family
but then he ascends / descends into
upper-class life then of course
atonement by Ian McEwan a thirteen year
old girl witnesses the love affair
between her sister and a boy and it's
and then the second half of the book is
about the First World War it was a
terrible synopsis I'm so sorry then of
course the next book is 1984 by George
Orwell which is this alternate universe
where where big brother is always
watching you and so if a state says it's
about state surveillance leaving on from
atonement actually this is very similar
which is the go-between by LP Hartley
which I actually read with school and I
really loved it it's about a boy called
Leo who comes to live so he's from a
middle-class family he goes to live at
the house of one of his friends from
boarding school who is very wealthy and
it's his adventures over the summer as a
go-between between Ted who is a farmer
and Marian who is his friend's sister
and so it's about the class divided
within a marriage but within a loving
relationship and actually the other book
that I've put down here is similarly one
that I did at school and that's the
Great Gatsby by a scott Fitzgerald and
this is about Gatsby and his pursuit for
Daisy his pursuit of the American dream
the next book I've got is Coraline by
Neil Gaiman and this is about the girl
called Coraline who was very bored not
very satisfied with her life but now she
goes through this blocked away in her
house and she fine finds this on the
world where she has an other mother and
another father where they so but
into that eyes it's so brilliant I think
it's better than the film the next clip
I put down is Oliver Twist by Charles
Dickens again and again synopsis was
unnecessary but Oliver Twist is in a
he's in a White House and he travels to
London where he meets The Artful Dodger
and fit and Fagin in the first half
you've got that if there's a lot about
kickboxing
he kind of joins the ranks of this
pickpocketing society the next book is a
monster calls by Patrick Ness despite a
boy called Connor whose mother is dying
cancer he's obviously very anxious about
this he's very preoccupied and at 3 a.m.
every morning a monster comes to his
door and tells him a story
the next book is Anne of Green Gables
which is by Lucy Maud Montgomery is
about a girl called Anne who is adopted
by the Cuthbert's and it's her life at
Green Gables as she grows up
and this really feisty loveable
character and who just has an
imagination of gold the next book is I
am David by own home justice apps during
the Holocaust and this is about a boy
called David who escapes from a
concentration camp I think it's out of
it and he travels to Italy and there's
this beautiful passage where he tries an
orange for the first time the next book
is tinder by Sally Gardner which is very
difficult to give us an OP source of
actually because it's very mystical this
man is in battle and he's given a
tinderbox I read this quite a while ago
actually and I can't think of a synopsis
so I'm just going to read you what it
says on Goodreads so a young soldier a
captive princess witches wolves and
death will card in hand in SCI gardeners
explicitly written new novel which is
inspired by the Hans Christian Andersen
fairy tale the tinderbox so Otto is
tired of war but when he defies death he
walks a dangerous path I'm really sorry
but my camera has actually overheated
and so I'm unable to film anymore on
there and I'm so I'm just gonna continue
this video I've only got a few more
books have to show you on my phone I'm
really sorry for the camera quality
change the next book is another
dystopian novel and this is Fahrenheit
451 by Ray Bradbury this is about a
society where books are
it's a crime to own books and our
protagonist is actually part of the
firefighter squad which burns these
books but when he picks one up for
himself he becomes part of the
resistance and it's called Fahrenheit
451 because that's the temperature at
which books burn the next book where is
it was my copied on The Lovely Bones by
Alice Sebold which is about a girl who
at the age of her name Suzie and at the
age of 14 she is raped and murdered by
her and her body hidden by her neighbor
and it's written part it's written so
it's written from the perspective of a
dead person because Suzie is writing it
after her death and reflecting upon it
and looking down at the grief of her
family and also the fate of her murderer
then the next book I've got is me and
Emma by Elizabeth flock and this is
about a girl called Carrie who feels
this need to protect her sister they
both live in an abusive and very poor
household they live a life of neglect
and abuse I know I own a copy of this
book but it's not on my bookshelf so it
must be downstairs but the next book is
the ocean at the end of the lane by Neil
Gaiman I love Neil Gaiman's work so this
is about a man who returns to his
childhood home town for a funeral and he
reflects back on his childhood when he
was seven when he met a girl called
Lettie who heard a pond which was which
he called the ocean in his childhood a
man has just been murdered in his car
and he meets Latty it's really hard to
explain the storyline but it's very
mystical the next book I've put down is
let the ripe one in which is by a
Swedish writer who I can't remember I
can't remember any of these people's
names as today
Lindquist sorry I know I can't say that
but basically this is a vampire story
this is about a boy who was getting
bullied and then he meets this
twelve-year-old girl in the park and
they become friends but he realizes that
she is a vampire I didn't like Twilight
but this book is nothing like Twilight
it's a vampire story but it's
non-comparable
the next book that I've put down is the
distance between Lost and Found by
Katherine Holmes and this is again about
bullying I do like books about bullying
so it's about this girl who basically
refuses to speak then they go on this
school trip to this Nature Reserve and
they go hiking in the woods that their
group gets lost the next book is Rebecca
by Daphne du Maurier and this is about
mrs. de Wynter who marries Maximus and
they but Maximus has an ex-wife who died
and mrs. de Wynter feels as though she
has always been compared to this
mystical figure of his ex-wife Rebecca
then next I have got Howl's Moving
Castle by Diana Wynne Jones and you
might have seen the Studio Ghibli print
a movie of this which is really good as
well and it's so in the land of Ingary
where seven-league boots and cloaks and
visibility really exist
Sophie Hatter attracts the unwelcome
attention of the Witch of the waste
who puts a curse on her determined to
make the best of things so if he travels
to the one place so she might get help
the Moving Castle which hovers on the
nearby hills gorgeous look so then the
penultimate book which I've got is Peter
Pan by JM Barrie very obvious storyline
but basically the darling children are
taken away to Neverland by Peter Pan and
I think this is better than both film
versions and then the very last book
which I've got to tell you is Around the
World in eighty Days by Jules Verne and
this is about a man who decrees that he
is going to travel around the world in
80 days and it's his adventures along
the way so they are my fifty favorite
books and I know already that I have
emitted so many of my favorites because
as I've been going through this video I
keep on thinking of other books which I
wanted to include so maybe we'll have a
top 100 sometime when it means that I
could include these books and other
videos so I will recommend them at some
point and but thank you so much for
watching this video I hope that it's not
too long because I've been filming this
for maybe two hours now so it has taken
quite a while to film I know I'm gonna
have to cut a lot down so thank you
again I hope that you have a productive
week